>> Steve Kinney: But
they also have this interesting thing.
This is actually true of
the anthropic API as well.
It just happens to work in Claude code.
In fact,
they mentioned the cloud code docs, but
they kick you off to the regular
anthropic SDK docs at this point.
Till I talk about this, which is, you
can use this thing called thinking mode,
because we saw like 03 and
01 and 04 are reasoning models.
They engage in thinking.
Any of the anthropic models can engage
in thinking if you compel them to do so.
Which mechanism puts them
to extended reasoning?
They'll spend more time thinking
about what they're going to do and
alternatives before they even try.
They'll think about what they
do before they do it again.
We all aspire to that.
Sometimes it's tricky,
obviously thinking cost tokens,
but like, so does throwing away what
it just did because it was garbage and
asking it to do it again,
it becomes a fine art.
So how do you do it?
You just use the word think in the prompt.
You just say, think about.
Think this through.
If you say the word think, it will use
about 4,000 tokens of reasoning, right?
Like I said before, if you think about
the context window of Gemini and Opus,
they're 2 million.
So, it's not nothing, right?
That is like, 16,000 characters, right?
Like, Think Hard will
go up to 10,000 tokens.
I didn't know about Mega Think until I
reread the docs I like because I know that
Think Harder and
Ultrathink do the same thing.
Which one do you think I use?
Ultrathink.
I have seen some people
use the ultrathink.
I don't believe that does anything.
Try it out.
Because like, Ultrathink maxing out at
31,999 seems awfully specific to me,
right?
I cannot imagine.
Like, the rest are like around
10,000 tokens, around 4,000 tokens,
31,999 tokens.
And I cannot believe that
ultrathink does anything.
Maybe I'm wrong, but
that seems oddly specific.
Now keep in mind,
all of those tokens cost more with Opus.
I would love to tell you there
is an answer of does Opus
without Ultrathink outperform
Sonnet with Ultrathink?
And does the amount like, maybe.
I don't know.
I couldn't tell you, I am trying them all.
I'm getting a feel for it.
Like, and like, I don't have a.
This always works like this.
I'm like, you do start to
develop a sixth sense of like.
And then when I'm angry,
it's opus ultrathink.
And then I run,
I blow through my limit and I'm sad.
But like, it's a thing.
But it is worth thinking about again.
Reddit comment I posted before,
a good plan will save you tokens.
And so do you use the token
to come up with a good plan?
Do you write the good plan?
Do you sit there in Gemini in the chat
window and come up with a good plan and
paste it into the markdown thing and
not use any of these tokens?
I have done all three in
the last three days, yes.
I don't know.
I'm figuring it out.
This is the lint rules definitely work.
How do you jockey between and divide up
like the thinking times the model plus
the tokens,
plus which rate limits apply where.
I mean, how I behave when I get the
warning that I'm approaching my rate limit
is different than how I
behave at 8am in the morning.
So yeah, extended thinking could waste
tokens, it could save you tokens,
it could rewrite the whole thing in elm,
we don't know.
But yeah, okay, so, and we'll pull this
up in there in a second, but I think
this is worth talking about before we jump
in is it has this notion of compacting
context windows, which I think has some
ergonomics that we need to think about.
And so cursor will just say you need
to start a new window now, a new chat.
Now Claude will do this thing of like
approaching context window limit.
We're gonna precompat.
We're gonna compact soon.
It's gonna happen where all compaction is,
is it looks at the giant
summary of everything, right?
And it says,
it sends it back to the model.
That's why it needs some space to do it.
It says,
summarize this into a smaller thing,
which you will lose some fidelity, right?
And so
if you're in the middle of a big thing,
okay, you have no choice, right?
But what you don't want to have is, then I
started talking about something else, and
then I went to this other task
because that's going to get
summarized to your thing.
You're going to lose fidelity of the thing
you cared about to keep context of
the thing you stopped caring
about hours ago, right?
And so yeah, shrinking it down, take
a bunch of tokens, make it less tokens,
not that hard to think about.
You can call compact anytime you want,
right?
And one belief system is you should do
it like whenever you're between a Task.
I would argue there's also clear,
which is like starting a new chat.
And if you're truly switching tasks,
I don't even need to
compact it at that point.
You know what I mean?
That's a, you know, your mileage may vary
kind of thing, but you can trigger one.
If you don't, it will do it right,
but you're probably better off having
some control in when you do it.
So switching tasks, any kind of
natural stopping point you call
compact it will take your long context
window, smush it, that's a technical term,
into a smaller one.
Yes, you lose words.
Hopefully, it does it well.
You can like, if you do it yourself
though, you can also give it a prompt in
a few words of like, hey,
this is what I care about.
And it will take that into consideration.
If you don't do that, and
it does it automatically,
because it's hit the point
where I gotta compact,
I'm gonna blow through the context window,
it's gonna yolo it, right?
And you might get the thing you want.
You might get the thing,
not get the thing you want.
So like, generally speaking,
compacting it down or
clearing it out is the path forward.
And again, if you do it yourself, you can
at least give a summarization of like,
only keep the to do items or summarize
it down to just the things about this.
And it will do that.
If you don't do it yourself,
you're rolling the dice and
hoping it makes good decisions.
Alternatively, this is the same as
quitting it and starting it again,
which I did for the longest time until
it encouraged me to hit slash and
see what the other commands were.
That works as well.
It's great.
It will totally wipe it out.
There is possibly one reason why
you wouldn't want to use this.
And I'll show you this in a second.